PETE LEPAGE: Progressive web
apps are coming to the desktop.
The generic sensor
API makes it way
easier to get access
to device sensors,
like the accelerometer,
gyroscope, and more.
And BigInt makes dealing
with big integers way easier.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 67.
Desktop progressive web apps
are now supported on Chrome OS,
and we've already
started working
on support for Mac and Windows.
Once installed, they're launched
in the same way as other apps
and running an app window
without an address bar or tabs.
Service workers ensure that
they're fast and reliable.
The app window experience
makes them feel integrated,
and they create an engaging
experience for your users.
Getting started isn't
any different than what
you're already doing today.
All of the work
that you've already
done for your existing
progressive web app
still applies.
You simply need to consider
some additional breakpoints.
If your app meets the standard
progressive web app criteria,
Chrome will fire the
beforeinstallprompt event,
but it won't automatically
prompt the user.
Instead, save the event, then
add some UI like an Install App
button to your app
to tell the user
that your app can be installed.
Then when the user
clicks on that button,
call prompt on the saved event.
Chrome will then show
the prompt to the user.
If they click Add, Chrome will
add your progressive web app
to their shelf and launcher.
Check out my Google
I/O talk, where
Jenny and I go into detail
about the technical and special
design considerations
that you need
to think about when building
a desktop progressive web app.
And if you want to start playing
with this on Mac or Windows,
check out the post linked in
the description for details
on how you can enable
support with a flag.
Sensor data is used in many
apps to enable experiences
like immersive gaming, fitness
tracking, augmented reality,
or virtual reality.
This data is now
available to web apps
using the generic sensor API.
The API consists
of a base sensor
interface with a set of concrete
sensor classes built on top.
Having a base interface
simplifies the implementation
and specification process for
the concrete sensor classes.
For example, the gyroscope
class is super tiny.
The core functionality
is specified by the base
interface, and the
gyroscope merely
extends it with
three attributes,
representing angular velocity.
Chrome 67 supports the
accelerometer, gyroscope,
orientation sensor,
and motion sensor.
Intel has put together a
page with a whole bunch
of amazing demos
and sample code.
And they've also updated the
updates post from September
with everything
you need to know.
Both are linked in
the description.
BigInts are a numeric
primitive and JavaScript
that can represent integers
with arbitrary precision.
Large integer IDs and
high accuracy timestamps
can't be safely represented as
numbers in JavaScript, which
often leads to real-world bugs
because we end up representing
them as strings instead.
With BigInts, we can
safely store and perform
integer arithmetic
without overflowing.
Today, dealing with
these large integers
typically means that
we have to resort
to a library that would emulate
BigInt like functionality.
When BigInts become
widely available,
we'll be able to drop
these runtime dependencies
in favor of native BigInts.
Not only is the native
implementation faster,
it'll help reduce load time,
parse time, and compile time
because we won't have to
load those extra libraries.
Firefox and Safari
have already started
working on BigInt
implementations,
and you can learn
more by checking out
Matthias' BigInt post.
There's lots more, but
I'm already over time.
So check out the new and
Chrome post link below.
It has a few bonus
items and includes links
to all of the demos,
docs, and specs.
If you didn't make it to I/O--
or maybe you did, but didn't
see all the web talks--
check out the Chrome
and web playlists
to get caught up on all
the latest from Google I/O.
Oh, and click that
Subscribe button,
and you'll get an
email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LaPage, and as soon
as Chrome 68 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.